# Assignment 07: High Fidelity Prototype

Lisa Bi 
DH 150

## Graphic Design
When designing the visual aesthetic of the graphic, my goal was to create a clean, organized, and cohesive interface design. To reach this goal, I made sure to implement a minialistic style across the app, without unneccessary embellishments. For the purpose of readability, I decided that the base of the interface should be white. If I were to further develop this app, I would also design a dark interface so that users would have the option to choose between a light interface or a dark interface. In addition, I decided that the accent color would be a deep blue. My reasoning behind this decision is that blue is a color that is popular with both men and women, and I wanted to appeal to a broad audience. Although people do not usually consciously pick apps and websites based on color, color can definitely play a part in the subconscious decisions of users. Therefore, I wanted to pick a popular color with broad appeal. Moreover, a deep blue is highly contrasting on a white background, which aides in readability. A deep blue can still be differentiated from black and gray, so it can be used to attract users' attention to important buttons. I used this color relatively sparingly, using it only for important features such as the tabs, the navigation bar icons, and buttons involved with making and accepting offers. I did not want to overuse the color because otherwise it would use it's use as an attention signaler. 

The primary font I used was Monserrat. For important titles and headings, I used Monserrat Bold and Monserrat Semibold. I picked this font because it is modern and stylish, while still being easily readable and user friendly. For the text of listing descriptions, profile descriptions, and the body of messages, I used Helvetica Neue. This font is suitable for large bodies of text because it is very readable and very familiar to users, due to it's broad use among apps and websites. 
